# CA-3
Crime data analysis

The crime data analysis is a case study that works around crime in Ireland.  The reason to conduct a case on crime in Ireland is to get the insights on crime pattern in Ireland. The data for this case study was taken from gov.ie which was provided by each garda station. Before conducting any analysis, it is important to perform cleaning which is called data preparation stage. The data was cleaned and restructured initially. Later stages were about descriptive statistical methods such as graphical visualizations and PCA was performed to get the variables which are useful for analysis. The correlation technique was also conducted to know the dependent variable relation with independent variable. After obtaining the final dataset and we obtain variables that are used for hypothesis testing. The research question, how will the change in Total murder cases will affect the change in total case using weapons? It was assumed that number of crimes in murder will be related to number of crimes happened using weapons. The analysis was to see the relation between these variables. Depending upon the variable types which was discrete in this case and normality test the hypothesis testing method was used. The variables under scrutiny were total number of crimes in murder in each city and total number of crimes used weapons. These variables happen to be not normally distributed, so the Spearman correlation test was used. The results reject the Null hypothesis and alternate hypothesis was accepted. Finally, power analysis was conducted to check if the optimal sample size was taken or not so that the test doesn’t make type1 or type 2 errors. The current approaches can be changed if crime rate is available for every town/village, then the hypothesis test can give better results. 
